proposals/bip-001.md, before:

# BIP Purpose and Guidelines

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| BIP | 1 |
| Title | BIP Purpose and Guidelines |
| Author | Alfredo Beaumont |
| Status | Draft |
| Created | 2017-05-26 |
| Updated | 2017-05-26 |

## Abstract

BIP stands for Babelfish Improvement Proposal. A BIP is a design document which
describes a change proposal to Babelfish. It's initially designed specifically
to propose changes to [UAST](https://doc.bblf.sh/uast/specification.html)
components regarding code categorization through Roles or related entities, but
its scope may become broader in the future. It's informally defined.

The BIP should provide a concise technical specification of, and rational for,
the proposed change.

We intend BIPs to be the primary mechanism for proposing new features or changes
to existing ones in the UAST components.

## Rationale

Currently changes to UAST are mostly language driven, i. e., whenever a language
driver implementor finds that there's some feature missing to complete an AST to
UAST conversion, this new feature is requested to be added through a Pull
Request. While this process is quick, it doesn't scale well: a single language
need is not the best background for a universal feature request discussion, and
it easies a process that may degenerate in a UAST that becomes the sum of each
single language feature, which is something we should avoid. That's why
introducing a more formal process, requiring a larger background and use cases,
should help visualising which features are general enough, which ones are just
special cases of a more general ones, which ones are just details that may be
left for a future version, etc.

## Workflow

A BIP process should begin with an author proposing an idea. This idea should be
as focused as possible.

The author must:
- Discuss the idea publicly, gather early feedback and make sure that the idea
  is not guaranteed to be rejected.
- Present a draft. It should take the next available BIP number and its status
  should be **Draft**
- Reach consensus. Feedback should be added back to the proposal.

Once the BIP has been completed and reviewed it may be **Accepted** or
**Rejected** (it may have not been a good idea after all). In any case it's
important to have a record of the discussion so the proposal will be archived.


## Specification

Each BIP should have the following parts

1. Title

2. Header with metadata

3. Abstract -- a short description of the issue being addressed

4. Rationale -- proposal motivation. It should be clearly explain why current
   design is inadequate to address the problem that this BIP solves, and the use
   cases for it.

5. Specification -- The technical specification should clearly describe the
   change details. It should be detailed enough to allow language driver
   implementors understand whether and how they should make use of this new
   feature or change.

6. Alternatives -- The alternatives should describe how the issue is currently
   solved, how it could be solved if this change is not accepted, or what
   alternative designs could be implemented.

7. Impact -- Which languages are affected, how frequent this feature appears in
   each language, which existing drivers are affected and how they should be
   modified must be documented here.

8. References -- Links to language specs describing related features or other
   kind of related information.

### Format and Templates

BIPs must be written in Markdown format. [BIP 0](bip-000.md) should be used as a
template.

### Header

Each BIP must begin with a header that includes the following information:

- BIP number
- Title
- Author. List of authors with real names.
- Status. One of Draft | Accepted | Rejected
- Created. Date of creation
- Updated. Date of last update

## References

This document is inspired by similar documents in other projects, specially
[DEP](https://github.com/dylan-lang/website/blob/master/source/proposals/index.rst)
and [PEP](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/).

Commit message:

[BIP] Update first two BIPs with feedback

proposals/bip-001.md, after:

# BIP Purpose and Guidelines

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| BIP | 1 |
| Title | BIP Purpose and Guidelines |
| Author | Alfredo Beaumont |
| Status | Draft |
| Created | 2017-05-26 |
| Updated | 2017-05-26 |

## Abstract

BIP stands for Babelfish Improvement Proposal. A BIP is a design document which
describes a change proposal to Babelfish. It's informally defined. The scope of
a BIP includes:

- Changes to [UAST](https://doc.bblf.sh/uast/specification.html)
  components regarding code categorization through Roles or related entities.

- Changes to Babelfish protocols (i. e. the
  [server protocol](https://doc.bblf.sh/user/server-protocol.html),
  [driver protocol](https://doc.bblf.sh/driver/protocol.html),
  [internal driver protocol](https://doc.bblf.sh/driver/internal-protocol.html),
  etc.

Its scope may become broader in the future.

The BIP should provide a concise technical specification of, and rational for,
the proposed change.

We intend BIPs to be the primary mechanism for proposing new features or changes
to existing ones in the UAST components.

## Rationale

Currently changes to UAST are mostly language driven, i. e., whenever a language
driver implementor finds that there's some feature missing to complete an AST to
UAST conversion, this new feature is requested to be added through a Pull
Request. While this process is quick, it doesn't scale well: a single language
need is not the best background for a universal feature request discussion, and
it easies a process that may degenerate in a UAST that becomes the sum of each
single language feature, which is something we should avoid. That's why
introducing a more formal process, requiring a larger background and use cases,
should help visualising which features are general enough, how to generalize
them and how to handle those features that are more specific.

## Workflow

A BIP process should begin with an author proposing an idea. This idea should be
as focused as possible.

The author must:
- Discuss the idea publicly, gather early feedback and make sure that the idea
  is not guaranteed to be rejected.
- Present a draft. It should take the next available BIP number and its status
  should be **Draft**
- Reach consensus. Feedback should be added back to the proposal. You should
  open a Pull Request with the proposal in the
  [babelfish documentation project](https://github.com/bblfsh/documentation/)
  for this process.

Once the BIP has been completed and reviewed it may be **Accepted** or
**Rejected** (it may have not been a good idea after all). In any case it's
important to have a record of the discussion so the proposal will be archived.
The final decision will be done by [mcuadros](https://github.com/mcuadros).


## Specification

Each BIP should have the following parts

1. Title

2. Header with metadata

3. Abstract -- a short description of the issue being addressed

4. Rationale -- proposal motivation. It should be clearly explain why current
   design is inadequate to address the problem that this BIP solves, and the use
   cases for it.

5. Specification -- The technical specification should clearly describe the
   change details. It should be detailed enough to allow language driver
   implementors understand whether and how they should make use of this new
   feature or change.

6. Alternatives -- The alternatives should describe how the issue is currently
   solved, how it could be solved if this change is not accepted, or what
   alternative designs could be implemented.

7. Impact -- Which languages are affected, how frequent this feature appears in
   each language, which existing drivers are affected and how they should be
   modified must be documented here.

8. References -- Links to language specs describing related features or other
   kind of related information.

### Format and Templates

BIPs must be written in Markdown format. [BIP 0](bip-000.md) should be used as a
template.

### Header

Each BIP must begin with a header that includes the following information:

- BIP number
- Title
- Author. List of authors with real names.
- Status. One of Draft | Accepted | Rejected
- Created. Date of creation
- Updated. Date of last update
- Target version. Target version for this feature to be implemented. It may not
  appear if the BIP is not about a releaseable feature.

## References

This document is inspired by similar documents in other projects, specially
[DEP](https://github.com/dylan-lang/website/blob/master/source/proposals/index.rst)
and [PEP](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/).
