using-babelfish/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

## Using the online dashboard

The easiest way to get started with Babelfish is to try the online [dashboard](http://dashboard.bblf.sh/) where you can write or paste your code and run the parser to see the generated UAST.

## Installing bblfshd locally

After playing with the dashboard, you will probably want to get Babelfish running locally. The first thing to do for that is to setup and run the [`bblfshd`](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd) command. Once the server is running, you can connect to it using any of the available [clients](clients.md).

### Prerequisites

* Linux: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) \(optional\)
* macOS: [Docker for Mac](https://www.docker.com/docker-mac)
* Windows: [Docker for Windows](https://www.docker.com/docker-windows)

### Running with Docker \(recommended\)

The easiest way to run the _bblfshd_ daemon is using Docker. You can do it in stateless mode, meaning that all installed drivers will be wiped out once you remove the container, or using a Docker volume to store part of the container internal filesystem and thus add persistence.

#### Stateless mode

For stateless mode, run the following command:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 bblfsh/bblfshd
```

#### Using a volume

This is an alternative to stateless mode. Depending on your operating system, you can use a Docker volume or a normal local filesystem directory.

**Docker volume \(Linux and macOS\)**

First, create a volume with the command:

```bash
$ docker volume create bblfshd-cache
```

Then you can run the daemon with this command:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v bblfshd-cache:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

#### Volume mapped to a local directory \(Linux only\)

In this case, just specify the local directory in the `-v` parameter when running the daemon:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v /var/lib/bblfshd:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

### Notes on command line parameters to "docker run"

The only mandatory flag is [`--privileged`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities). _bblfshd_ uses containers itself to run language drivers, which currently requires it to run in privileged mode.

Exposing the port \(`9432`\) with `-p 9432:9432` makes it easier to connect to the gRPC server from outside the container.

If you are behind an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server, for example in corporate settings, you will need to add the `HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, and `NO_PROXY` environment variables in the docker run command to configure HTTP or HTTPS proxy behavior.

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -e 
HTTP_PROXY="http://proxy.example.com:80/" -v bblfshd-cache:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

If your system uses SELinux \(like Fedora, Red Hat or CentOS among other Linux distributions\) you'll need to install a policy module. You can find instructions about it in the [bblfshd README](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd#selinux).

### Testing the daemon

If everything worked, `docker logs bblfshd` should output something like this:

```text
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="bblfshd version: v2.0.0 (build: 2017-10-09T21:18:54+0000)"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="initializing runtime at /var/lib/bblfshd"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="server listening in 0.0.0.0:9432 (tcp)"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="control server listening in /var/run/bblfshctl.sock (unix)"
```

#### Installing the drivers

Now we need to install the driver images into the daemon, you can install the official images with the following command:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver install --recommended
```

You can check the installed versions executing:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver list
```

```bash
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| LANGUAGE |             IMAGE             | VERSION | STATUS | CREATED |   OS   | GO  |   NATIVE    |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| python   | //bblfsh/python-driver:latest | v1.1.5  | beta   | 4 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 3.6.2       |
| java     | //bblfsh/java-driver:latest   | v1.1.0  | alpha  | 6 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 8.131.11-r2 |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
```

To test the driver you can execute a parse request to the server with the `bblfshctl parse` command, and an example contained in the Docker image:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl parse /opt/bblfsh/etc/examples/python.py
```

Use this only for testing the installation; if you want to do any real parsing with files in your local filesystem you should use one of the [clients](clients.md) which would also allow you to run XPath queries over the results.

### Running standalone

A standalone distribution of `bblfshd` and `bblfshctl` can be found at the GitHub [release page](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd/releases).

_bblfshd_ is only provided for Linux distributions, since it relies on Linux containers to run language drivers. And _bblfshctl_ can be found for Windows, macOS and Linux.

## Using bblfshctl

The _bblfshd_ daemon comes with a command line tool called _bblfshctl_, which can be used to monitor and manage the daemon.

If you are using the Docker image then the command line tool is provided with the `bblfsh/bblfshd` image and can be used with a `docker exec` command.

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl --help
```

```bash
Usage:
  bblfshctl [OPTIONS] <command>

Help Options:
  -h, --help  Show this help message

Available commands:
  driver     Manage drivers: install, remove and list
  instances  List the driver instances running on the daemon
  parse      Parse a file and prints the UAST or AST
  status     List all the pools of driver instances running
```

### Driver management

The _bblfshd's_ drivers can be installed, updated and removed with the `driver` command and its subcommands. Remember to prefix all these commands with `docker exec -it bblfshd` if you are running bblfshd from a Docker image.

Installing all official drivers:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver install --recommended
```

Replacing an installed driver with a specific version:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver install python bblfsh/python-driver:v1.1.5 --update
```

Listing all available drivers:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver list
```

```bash
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| LANGUAGE |             IMAGE             | VERSION | STATUS | CREATED |   OS   | GO  |   NATIVE    |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| python   | //bblfsh/python-driver:latest | v1.1.5  | beta   | 4 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 3.6.2       |
| java     | //bblfsh/java-driver:latest   | v1.1.0  | alpha  | 6 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 8.131.11-r2 |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
```

Commit message:

rename dashboard to web client
Signed-off-by: Maxim Sukharev <maxim@sourced.tech>

using-babelfish/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

## Using the online web client 

The easiest way to get started with Babelfish is to try the online [web client](http://dashboard.bblf.sh/) where you can write or paste your code and run the parser to see the generated UAST.

## Installing bblfshd locally

After playing with the web client, you will probably want to get Babelfish running locally. The first thing to do for that is to setup and run the [`bblfshd`](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd) command. Once the server is running, you can connect to it using any of the available [clients](clients.md).

### Prerequisites

* Linux: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/community-edition) \(optional\)
* macOS: [Docker for Mac](https://www.docker.com/docker-mac)
* Windows: [Docker for Windows](https://www.docker.com/docker-windows)

### Running with Docker \(recommended\)

The easiest way to run the _bblfshd_ daemon is using Docker. You can do it in stateless mode, meaning that all installed drivers will be wiped out once you remove the container, or using a Docker volume to store part of the container internal filesystem and thus add persistence.

#### Stateless mode

For stateless mode, run the following command:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 bblfsh/bblfshd
```

#### Using a volume

This is an alternative to stateless mode. Depending on your operating system, you can use a Docker volume or a normal local filesystem directory.

**Docker volume \(Linux and macOS\)**

First, create a volume with the command:

```bash
$ docker volume create bblfshd-cache
```

Then you can run the daemon with this command:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v bblfshd-cache:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

#### Volume mapped to a local directory \(Linux only\)

In this case, just specify the local directory in the `-v` parameter when running the daemon:

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v /var/lib/bblfshd:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

### Notes on command line parameters to "docker run"

The only mandatory flag is [`--privileged`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities). _bblfshd_ uses containers itself to run language drivers, which currently requires it to run in privileged mode.

Exposing the port \(`9432`\) with `-p 9432:9432` makes it easier to connect to the gRPC server from outside the container.

If you are behind an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server, for example in corporate settings, you will need to add the `HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, and `NO_PROXY` environment variables in the docker run command to configure HTTP or HTTPS proxy behavior.

```bash
$ docker run -d --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -e 
HTTP_PROXY="http://proxy.example.com:80/" -v bblfshd-cache:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

If your system uses SELinux \(like Fedora, Red Hat or CentOS among other Linux distributions\) you'll need to install a policy module. You can find instructions about it in the [bblfshd README](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd#selinux).

### Testing the daemon

If everything worked, `docker logs bblfshd` should output something like this:

```text
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="bblfshd version: v2.0.0 (build: 2017-10-09T21:18:54+0000)"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="initializing runtime at /var/lib/bblfshd"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="server listening in 0.0.0.0:9432 (tcp)"
time="2017-10-10T08:59:20Z" level=info msg="control server listening in /var/run/bblfshctl.sock (unix)"
```

#### Installing the drivers

Now we need to install the driver images into the daemon, you can install the official images with the following command:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver install --recommended
```

You can check the installed versions executing:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver list
```

```bash
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| LANGUAGE |             IMAGE             | VERSION | STATUS | CREATED |   OS   | GO  |   NATIVE    |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| python   | //bblfsh/python-driver:latest | v1.1.5  | beta   | 4 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 3.6.2       |
| java     | //bblfsh/java-driver:latest   | v1.1.0  | alpha  | 6 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 8.131.11-r2 |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
```

To test the driver you can execute a parse request to the server with the `bblfshctl parse` command, and an example contained in the Docker image:

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl parse /opt/bblfsh/etc/examples/python.py
```

Use this only for testing the installation; if you want to do any real parsing with files in your local filesystem you should use one of the [clients](clients.md) which would also allow you to run XPath queries over the results.

### Running standalone

A standalone distribution of `bblfshd` and `bblfshctl` can be found at the GitHub [release page](https://github.com/bblfsh/bblfshd/releases).

_bblfshd_ is only provided for Linux distributions, since it relies on Linux containers to run language drivers. And _bblfshctl_ can be found for Windows, macOS and Linux.

## Using bblfshctl

The _bblfshd_ daemon comes with a command line tool called _bblfshctl_, which can be used to monitor and manage the daemon.

If you are using the Docker image then the command line tool is provided with the `bblfsh/bblfshd` image and can be used with a `docker exec` command.

```bash
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl --help
```

```bash
Usage:
  bblfshctl [OPTIONS] <command>

Help Options:
  -h, --help  Show this help message

Available commands:
  driver     Manage drivers: install, remove and list
  instances  List the driver instances running on the daemon
  parse      Parse a file and prints the UAST or AST
  status     List all the pools of driver instances running
```

### Driver management

The _bblfshd's_ drivers can be installed, updated and removed with the `driver` command and its subcommands. Remember to prefix all these commands with `docker exec -it bblfshd` if you are running bblfshd from a Docker image.

Installing all official drivers:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver install --recommended
```

Replacing an installed driver with a specific version:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver install python bblfsh/python-driver:v1.1.5 --update
```

Listing all available drivers:

```bash
$ bblfshctl driver list
```

```bash
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| LANGUAGE |             IMAGE             | VERSION | STATUS | CREATED |   OS   | GO  |   NATIVE    |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
| python   | //bblfsh/python-driver:latest | v1.1.5  | beta   | 4 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 3.6.2       |
| java     | //bblfsh/java-driver:latest   | v1.1.0  | alpha  | 6 days  | alpine | 1.8 | 8.131.11-r2 |
+----------+-------------------------------+---------+--------+---------+--------+-----+-------------+
```
