using-babelfish/language-clients.md, before:

# Language Clients

There are some clients in different languages that provide a higher level API, built on top of [gRPC](https://grpc.io) and [`libuast`](https://github.com/bblfsh/libuast).

These clients make it easier to both parse and analyze the resulting UAST, abstracting from network communication and providing a query language to filter UASTs.

## Existing clients

There are clients for the following languages:

| Language | Status | Libuast | URL |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Python | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python) |
| Go | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go) |
| Scala | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala) |

## Examples

The client API's differ to adapt to their language specific idioms, the
following codes shows several simple examples with the Go, Python and Scala
clients that parsers a file and applies a filter to return all the simple
identifiers:

### Go example

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v2"
	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v2/tools"
	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/protocol"
)

func main() {
	client, err := bblfsh.NewClient("localhost:9432")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	res, err := client.NewParseRequest().ReadFile("some_file.py").Do()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	// Always check the Response.Status before further processing!
	if res.Status != protocol.Ok {
		panic("Parsing failed")
	}

	query := "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
	nodes, _ := tools.Filter(res.UAST, query)
	for _, n := range nodes {
		fmt.Println(n)
	}
}
```

### Python example

```python
import bblfsh

from bblfsh import filter as filter_uast

if __name__ == "__main__":
    client = bblfsh.BblfshClient("0.0.0.0:9432")
    response = client.parse("some_file.py")

    if response.status != 0:
      raise Exception('Some error happened: ' + str(response.errors))
  
    query = "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
    nodes = filter_uast(response.uast, query)
    for n in nodes:
      print(n)
```

### Scala example

```scala
import org.bblfsh.client.BblfshClient._

import gopkg.in.bblfsh.sdk.v1.protocol.generated.ParseResponse
import gopkg.in.bblfsh.sdk.v1.uast.generated.Node

import scala.io.Source

class BblfshClientParseTest {
  val fileName = "src/test/resources/SampleJavaFile.java"
  val fileContent = Source.fromFile(fileName) .getLines.mkString

  val resp = client.parse(fileName, fileContent)

  if (resp.uast.isDefined) {
     rootNode = resp.uast.get
     val filtered = client.filter(rootNode, "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]")
     filtered.foreach{ println }
  } else {
    // ... handle resp.uast.errors
  }
}
```

## Query language

When using one of the clients that support libuast you can query the UAST result nodes using an [xpath-like](https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/) query language. Check the [UAST querying page in this documentation](uast-querying.md) for the details.

## Iterators

The client also allow you to instance an Iterator object and iterate over the tree on several predefined orders:

* [Pre-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Pre-order)
* [Post-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Post-order)
* [Level-Order / Breadth first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Breadth-first_search)
* Position-Order \(this will retrieve the nodes in the same order as their position in the source code\).

To check the exact way to use an iterator you must consult the readme of the specific language client you're using, but they're generally easy to use as this Python example shows:

```python
import bblfsh
client = bblfsh.BblfshClient("0.0.0.0:9432")
root = client.parse("/path/to/myfile.py")

for node in bblfsh.iterator(root, bblfsh.TreeOrder.PRE_ORDER):
    #... do stuff with the node
```

Commit message:

source codes -> source code
Signed-off-by: Juanjo Alvarez <juanjo@sourced.tech>

using-babelfish/language-clients.md, after:

# Language Clients

There are some clients in different languages that provide a higher level API, built on top of [gRPC](https://grpc.io) and [`libuast`](https://github.com/bblfsh/libuast).

These clients make it easier to both parse and analyze the resulting UAST, abstracting from network communication and providing a query language to filter UASTs.

## Existing clients

There are clients for the following languages:

| Language | Status | Libuast | URL |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Python | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python) |
| Go | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go) |
| Scala | Beta | ✓ | [https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala](https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala) |

## Examples

The client API's differ to adapt to their language specific idioms, the
following code snippets show several simple examples with the Go, Python and Scala
clients that parser a file and apply a filter to return all the simple
identifiers:

### Go example

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v2"
	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v2/tools"
	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/protocol"
)

func main() {
	client, err := bblfsh.NewClient("localhost:9432")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	res, err := client.NewParseRequest().ReadFile("some_file.py").Do()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	// Always check the Response.Status before further processing!
	if res.Status != protocol.Ok {
		panic("Parsing failed")
	}

	query := "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
	nodes, _ := tools.Filter(res.UAST, query)
	for _, n := range nodes {
		fmt.Println(n)
	}
}
```

### Python example

```python
import bblfsh

from bblfsh import filter as filter_uast

if __name__ == "__main__":
    client = bblfsh.BblfshClient("0.0.0.0:9432")
    response = client.parse("some_file.py")

    if response.status != 0:
      raise Exception('Some error happened: ' + str(response.errors))
  
    query = "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
    nodes = filter_uast(response.uast, query)
    for n in nodes:
      print(n)
```

### Scala example

```scala
import org.bblfsh.client.BblfshClient._

import gopkg.in.bblfsh.sdk.v1.protocol.generated.ParseResponse
import gopkg.in.bblfsh.sdk.v1.uast.generated.Node

import scala.io.Source

class BblfshClientParseTest {
  val fileName = "src/test/resources/SampleJavaFile.java"
  val fileContent = Source.fromFile(fileName) .getLines.mkString

  val resp = client.parse(fileName, fileContent)

  if (resp.uast.isDefined) {
     rootNode = resp.uast.get
     val filtered = client.filter(rootNode, "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]")
     filtered.foreach{ println }
  } else {
    // ... handle resp.uast.errors
  }
}
```

## Query language

When using one of the clients that support libuast you can query the UAST result nodes using an [xpath-like](https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/) query language. Check the [UAST querying page in this documentation](uast-querying.md) for the details.

## Iterators

The client also allow you to instance an Iterator object and iterate over the tree on several predefined orders:

* [Pre-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Pre-order)
* [Post-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Post-order)
* [Level-Order / Breadth first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Breadth-first_search)
* Position-Order \(this will retrieve the nodes in the same order as their position in the source code\).

To check the exact way to use an iterator you must consult the readme of the specific language client you're using, but they're generally easy to use as this Python example shows:

```python
import bblfsh
client = bblfsh.BblfshClient("0.0.0.0:9432")
root = client.parse("/path/to/myfile.py")

for node in bblfsh.iterator(root, bblfsh.TreeOrder.PRE_ORDER):
    #... do stuff with the node
```
