uast/specification.md, before:


# UAST

## Overview

A UAST is a normalized form of AST with language-independent annotations. Its
structure is as follows:

```go
type Node struct {
	InternalType  string
	Properties    map[string]string
	Children      []*Node
	Token         string
	StartPosition Position
	EndPosition   Position
	Roles         []Role
}
```

**Check out the godoc for the SDK [UAST package](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/uast)**
for the full documentation of the UAST structure and annotations.

## Roles

UAST is annotated with **roles**. Roles are language-independent annotations that
describe what nodes in the UAST do.

UAST from different languages have different structures, but role annotations
allow to interpret some aspects uniformly.

For example, let's take an import of a package. If we draw nodes with their role
name and token (those with simple quotes), we might have something as the
following:

```mermaid
graph TD
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportDeclarationToken["'Import'"]
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportPath
    ImportPath-->ImportPathToken["'github.com/bblfsh/sdk'"]
```

Or we might have the following for a different language:

```mermaid
graph TD
    ImportDeclarationToken["'Import'"]
    IQcom["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQcomToken["'com'"]
    IQgithub["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQgithubName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQgithubToken["'github'"]
    IQbblfsh["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQbblfshName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQbblfshToken["'bblfsh'"]
    IQsdk["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQsdkName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQsdkToken["'sdk'"]

    ImportDeclaration-->ImportDeclarationToken
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportPath

    ImportPath-->IQsdk
    IQsdk-->IQbblfsh
    IQsdk-->IQsdkName
    IQsdkName-->IQsdkToken

    IQbblfsh-->IQgithub
    IQbblfsh-->IQbblfshName
    IQbblfshName-->IQbblfshToken

    IQgithub-->IQcom
    IQgithub-->IQgithubName
    IQgithubName-->IQgithubToken

    IQcom-->IQcomToken
```

One way or the other, we can get the package identifier by retrieving all tokens
under the `ImportPath` role in pre-order.

As it is clear from this example, extracting meaningful information from UAST
requires different tree operations for each role. The documentation and reference
implementation of these operations are defined in the `uast` package of the SDK.

* **TODO:** add more examples

Commit message:

uast: add links to godoc

uast/specification.md, after:


# UAST

## Overview

A UAST is a normalized form of AST with language-independent annotations. Its
structure is as follows:

```go
type Node struct {
	InternalType  string
	Properties    map[string]string
	Children      []*Node
	Token         string
	StartPosition Position
	EndPosition   Position
	Roles         []Role
}
```

**Check out the godoc for the SDK [UAST package](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/uast)**
for the full documentation of the UAST structure and annotations.

## Roles

UAST is annotated with **roles**. Roles are language-independent annotations that
describe what nodes in the UAST do. You can check the
[list of all roles in the godoc](http://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/uast/#Role).

UAST from different languages have different structures, but role annotations
allow to interpret some aspects uniformly.

For example, let's take an import of a package. If we draw nodes with their role
name and token (those with simple quotes), we might have something as the
following:

```mermaid
graph TD
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportDeclarationToken["'Import'"]
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportPath
    ImportPath-->ImportPathToken["'github.com/bblfsh/sdk'"]
```

Or we might have the following for a different language:

```mermaid
graph TD
    ImportDeclarationToken["'Import'"]
    IQcom["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQcomToken["'com'"]
    IQgithub["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQgithubName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQgithubToken["'github'"]
    IQbblfsh["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQbblfshName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQbblfshToken["'bblfsh'"]
    IQsdk["QualifiedIdentifier"]
    IQsdkName["SimpleIdentifier"]
    IQsdkToken["'sdk'"]

    ImportDeclaration-->ImportDeclarationToken
    ImportDeclaration-->ImportPath

    ImportPath-->IQsdk
    IQsdk-->IQbblfsh
    IQsdk-->IQsdkName
    IQsdkName-->IQsdkToken

    IQbblfsh-->IQgithub
    IQbblfsh-->IQbblfshName
    IQbblfshName-->IQbblfshToken

    IQgithub-->IQcom
    IQgithub-->IQgithubName
    IQgithubName-->IQgithubToken

    IQcom-->IQcomToken
```

One way or the other, we can get the package identifier by retrieving all tokens
under the `ImportPath` role in pre-order.

As it is clear from this example, extracting meaningful information from UAST
requires different tree operations for each role. The documentation and reference
implementation of these operations are defined in the
[uast](http://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/uast/)
package of the SDK.

* **TODO:** add more examples
