driver/protocol.md, before:


# Driver Protocol

## Transport

Standard input and output is used as transport. This applies both to the
communication between **server and driver** as well as the internal communication
in the driver between **UAST normalizer and AST parser**.

The server can terminate the process cleanly by closing the standard input pipe.
Closing the pipe while there is a pending response not read from standard output
is considered an error, and drivers should return a non-zero exit code. The
client must not perform half-closes (closing standard input if it expects to
continue reading from standard output).

All requests and responses have **sequential order**. Response to request N will
not start until response to request N-1 has finished.

The workflow of the protocol is as follows:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Server
    participant Driver
    loop MainLoop
        Server->>Driver: Request
        Driver-->>Server: Response
    end
```

## Encoding

Server-driver communication uses **protobuf 3** for message encoding. In the
driver side, this is implemented in the UAST normalizer in Go, using the
babelfish SDK.

* **TODO: Add proto**

## Processes

### Info

Info returns information about the driver. There is a general implementation in
the babelfish SDK that uses a [manifest](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/manifest#Manifest) to provide this information.

**Request** message has the following structure:

```
{
    "action": "Info"
}
```

**Response** structure is:

* **TODO: Add proto**

### Parse UAST

This process **parses a file and returns its UAST**. A request contains the content
of the file being analyzed as a string.

**Request:**

```
{
    "action": "parse-uast"
    "content": <content> (string)
}
```

**Response** structure is:

```
{
    "status": <status> ("ok", "error", "fatal")
    "errors": [ <error message>, <error message>, ... ]
    "uast": <UAST> (object)
}
```

If the parsing is successful, `status` is `ok`. If the file could be parsed
(AST was generated) but had parsing errors, `status` is `error`. If the file
could not be parsed at all (no AST), `status` is `fatal`.

`errors` might contain any parsing errors found. If `status` is `ok`, then
`errors` should be not set.

Note that **binary files are not supported** by this process at the moment. If we
want to add support for [Piet](http://www.dangermouse.net/esoteric/piet.html) in
the future, we will add a binary content field.

Check the [protocol package](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/protocol)
godoc for further details.

* **TODO: Add proto**

#### Example

```
[request (pretty printed)]
{
    "action": "parse-uast",
    "content": "#!/bin/bash\nexec foo\n"
}
[response (pretty printed)]
{
    "status": "ok",
    "uast": {
        "InternalType": "script",
        "Children": [
            { "InternalType": "shebang", "Token": "/bin/bash" },
            { "InternalType": "statement", "Token": "exec",
              "Children": [ { "InternalType": "string", "Token": "foo" } ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

Commit message:

General improvements and fixes
Removed old file

driver/protocol.md, after:


# Driver Protocol

## Transport

Standard input and output is used as transport. This applies both to the
communication between **server and driver** as well as the internal communication
in the driver between **UAST normalizer and AST parser**.

The server can terminate the process cleanly by closing the standard input pipe.
Closing the pipe while there is a pending response not read from standard output
is considered an error, and drivers should return a non-zero exit code. The
client must not perform half-closes (closing standard input if it expects to
continue reading from standard output).

All requests and responses have **sequential order**. Response to request N will
not start until response to request N-1 has finished.

The workflow of the protocol is as follows:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Server
    participant Driver
    loop MainLoop
        Server->>Driver: Request
        Driver-->>Server: Response
    end
```

## Encoding

Server-driver communication uses `JSON` representation for message encoding. In the
driver side, this is implemented in the UAST normalizer in Go, using the
babelfish SDK.

You can see the messages used for the exchange on the [proto file
for the SDK](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/blob/master/protocol/generated.proto).
It uses some types that are defined in [this other proto file from the UAST
submodule](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/blob/master/uast/generated.proto).

## Processes

### Info

Info returns information about the driver. There is a general implementation in
the babelfish SDK that uses a
[manifest](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/manifest#Manifest) to provide
this information.

**Request** message has the following structure:

```
{
    "action": "Info"
}
```

**Response** structure is:

* **TODO: Add proto**

### Parse UAST

This process **parses a file and returns its UAST**. A request contains the content
of the file being analyzed as a string.

**Request:**

```
{
    "action": "parse-uast"
    "content": <content> (string)
}
```

**Response** structure is:

```
{
    "status": <status> ("ok", "error", "fatal")
    "errors": [ <error message>, <error message>, ... ]
    "uast": <UAST> (object)
}
```

If the parsing is successful, `status` is `ok`. If the file could be parsed
(AST was generated) but had parsing errors, `status` is `error`. If the file
could not be parsed at all (no AST), `status` is `fatal`.

`errors` might contain any parsing errors found. If `status` is `ok`, then
`errors` should be not set.

Note that **binary files are not supported** by this process at the moment. If we
want to add support for [Piet](http://www.dangermouse.net/esoteric/piet.html) in
the future, we will add a binary content field.

Check the [protocol package](https://godoc.org/github.com/bblfsh/sdk/protocol)
godoc for further details.

#### Example

```
[request (pretty printed)]
{
    "action": "parse-uast",
    "content": "#!/bin/bash\nexec foo\n"
}
[response (pretty printed)]
{
    "status": "ok",
    "uast": {
        "InternalType": "script",
        "Children": [
            { "InternalType": "shebang", "Token": "/bin/bash" },
            { "InternalType": "statement", "Token": "exec",
              "Children": [ { "InternalType": "string", "Token": "foo" } ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
