driver/sdk.md, before:

# Babelfish SDK

The [Babelfish SDK](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/) contains the tools and libraries
required to create a Babelfish driver for a programming language.

## Preparations

### Dependencies

The Babelfish SDK has the following dependencies:

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker)
* [Go](https://golang.org/dl/)

Make sure that you've correctly set your [GOROOT and
GOPATH](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#Workspaces) environment variables.

### Installing

Install the Babelfish SDK. Native drivers and the external tools can be developed
in any programming language but the normalizer is developed using Go so you
must get it as any other go package:

```bash
$ go get -u -v gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/...
```

This will fetch the SDK repository to `$GOPATH/src/gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1` and
will install the `bblfsh-sdk` CLI to `$GOPATH/bin/bblfsh-sdk`.

### Creating the driver's initial structure

Let's say we're creating a driver for `mylang`.
The driver should be bootstrapped with `bblfsh-sdk`.
This will create a new git repo with some content required by every driver.

```bash
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/bblfsh
$ bblfsh-sdk init mylang alpine
initializing driver "mylang", creating new manifest
initializing new repo "mylang-driver"
creating file "mylang-driver/manifest.toml"
creating file "mylang-driver/.travis.yml"
creating file "mylang-driver/Dockerfile.tpl"
creating file "mylang-driver/README.md"
creating file "mylang-driver/.git/hooks/pre-commit"
creating file "mylang-driver/.gitignore"
creating file "mylang-driver/Dockerfile.build.tpl"
creating file "mylang-driver/LICENSE"
creating file "mylang-driver/Makefile"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/main.go"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/normalizer/annotation.go"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/normalizer/tonode.go"
$ cd mylang-driver
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m 'initialize repository'
```

Note that this adds a pre-commit [git
hook](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks), which will verify
these files are up to date before every commit and will disallow commits if some
of the managed files are changed. You can by-pass this with `git commit
--no-verify`.

You can find the driver skeleton used here in the SDK source code:
[`etc/sekeleton`](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/tree/master/etc/skeleton).

### Updating SDK version

Whenever a new version of the SDK is released, drivers might need updates.
`bblfsh-sdk` can be used to perform some of this updates in managed files.
For example, if a new SDK version is released with a new version of the README
template, running `bblfsh-sdk update` will overwrite it.

```bash
$ bblfsh-sdk update
managed file "README.md" has changed, discarding changes
```

`bblfsh-sdk` doesn't update the SDK itself so if you want to use a new version of
the SDK you'll also have to update the Go package **first** with:

```bash
go get -u gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/...
```

If the update gives you any problem you can try to delete the
`$GOPATH/src/gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1` manually and run the go get command
again to get a fresh copy.

## Implementing the Driver

A driver has several subcomponents. On this document and the next one
we'll see how to implement all these parts to create a new driver.

The components are:

- Tests: source code, native AST, and UAST files for the integration tests.

- Native parser: parses source code in the driver's target language
and generates a language or library specific (non-universal) AST.

- Driver normalizer: annotates and generates the final UAST.

### Creating the native parser

The native source code parser implementation should be in the directory `native`
in the top level of the driver repository. This directory should contain all
source code and support files (e.g. build system manifests) required to build it.

The core functionality to be implemented on the parser side is the source code
parser. This should get the source contents of a file and return an AST
representation. This AST representation should be what the native or library AST
parser outputs as is. The native parser might be from the standard library of the
language, a third-party library, or a custom one (in that order of preference).
Any language can be used to implement the parser so use whatever is easier for the
specific language you're working on.

#### Native parser operation

When the driver executes the parser, the former entry point should run a
main loop similar to the example below. It should read requests from standard
input (which contain a string with the contents of the source to parse), parse it
generating the native AST and write a response to the standard output.

Requests and responses must be serialized in JSON format on a single line finished
with a Unix newline character ('\n') so the driver can iterate over the standard
input line by line. This means so the language selected to implement the parser
should support it in the standard library or any third party module.

A response for a request should always be written, even if processing fails (in
this case an error response will be returned). If the standard input stream is
closed or the program can write to it for any other reason, the program should
exit with code 0. If the writing to standard output fails, the program should
exit with code 1 (additionally it could try to log the error to stderr).

Here we illustrate its behaviour in Python-like pseudocode:

```python
while True:
    line = read_line_from_stdin()
    if stdin_is_closed():
        exit(0)

    try:
        request = parse_json_request(line)
        ast = parse_code(request["content"])
        response = serialize_json_response(ast)
    except Exception, e:
        try:
            write_to_stdout(generate_error_response(e))
        except:
            exit(1)
        continue

    try:
        write_to_stdout(response)
    except:
        exit(1)
```

In order to avoid maintainability burdens, the parser should avoid, as much as
possible, to change the AST that is generated by the language library or third
party module in use. One exception to this would be to improve the information
kept in the AST to kept more information as explained in the ["From Code to AST"]
(../uast/code-to-ast.md) page, for example, for including comments and whitespace
information. Use your own discretion when balancing the improved information
versus the development and maintainability effort.


The fields in the JSON requests and responses are detailed on the [internal
protocol](internal-protocol.md) page.

*Note:* When extracting the native AST you should try to keep as much information
as possible following the guidelines explained in the ["From Code to
AST"](../uast/code-to-ast.md) page.

#### Native parser unit tests

The parser should provide unit tests checking that the parsing and the AST
conversion work well. Since the parser can be written in many different
languages, the location and form of the tests should try to be as idiomatic
as possible to avoid future maintainability problems.

Once you've created your unit tests, you must modify the Makefile in the root
of the driver filesystem adding the commands to run them under the Makefile
target `test-parser-internal`. For example, for a Python driver using the
Python default test framework it could look like:

```Makefile
test-parser-internal:
    cd native/python_package/test; \
    python3 -m unittest discover
```

Once you've done it, you can run your tests with `make test-parser-internal`.
Please note that these tests aren't run inside a Docker container so you'll need
to have any needed dependency installed on your environment to run the tests.

### Creating the Converter and Annotator

The conversion from AST to UAST is written in Go. The main files to be edited are
`driver/normalizer/annotation.go` and `driver/normalizer/tonode.go`. The details
are explained in the [annotations section](annotations.html).

### Updating the Makefile with the build instructions

The `Makefile` must contain a target with instructions to build the
parser and install it into a preconfigured path. The `bblfsh` tool
has already added that target with this code:

```Makefile
build-native-internal:
    cd native; \
    echo "not implemented"
    echo -e "#!/bin/bash\necho 'not implemented'" > $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
    chmod +x $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
```

You need to remove the placeholder `echo` commands and add there any
commands needed to compile (for non-interpreted languages) and generate
a binary or script with the name `native`, copy it to `$(BUILD\_PATH)` and
assign execution permissions.

For example, for a typical C program the target could be:

```Makefile
build-native-internal:
    cd native; \
    gcc parser.c -o $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
    chmod +x $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
```

This makefile target will usually run inside a Docker container (see
the next section), but you can test it running `make build-native-internal`
and checking the resulting file on the `build` directory.


### Configuring the build Dockerfile

The building of the driver is done in a Docker container so you must adapt the
Docker template `Dockerfile.build.tpl` that the `bblfsh` command created for you
to install all the dependencies needed to build the `native` command detailed in
the previous step.

The templated dockerfile looks like this (without comments):

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.6
RUN mkdir -p /opt/driver/src && \
    adduser ${BUILD_USER} -u ${BUILD_UID} -D -h /opt/driver/src
RUN apk add --no-cache make git curl ca-certificates
WORKDIR /opt/driver/src
```

As the comments in the file say, Alpine is the preferred distribution for
space reasons but you can use Debian slim or other slim versions if for any
reason Alpine don't work for your driver.

You should add any packages you need to the `apk add` line. Avoid adding more
lines with more `RUN apk add` commands instead because that would create more
intermediate layers (taking more space).

You can also install dependencies using the language package manager instead
(pip, cargo, dub, npm, etc. if you prefer, after installing it with apk.
Another option is downloading and compiling the dependencies. If you go that
way you'll probably need the `build-base` or `alpine-sdk` packages.

You can see a list and search for Alpine packages
[here](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages).

You don't need to run any command to build the `native` file; the SDK will
execute `make build-native-internal` target once the Docker has been created.

To trigger the building and test your Dockerfile and building process you can
issue the commands:

```bash
$ bblfsh-sdk prepare-build
$ make build
```

You'll see a sequence of `docker build` and `docker run` commands execute and any
building error will show on the standard output.

### Configuring the run Dockerfile

The second dockerfile template that you have to edit is the one that the Babelfish
server will use to run new instances of drivers. Like the build one it will also
be generated by the `bblfsh-sdk` command but with the filename `Dockerfile.tpl`
and this initial content without comments:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.6
ENTRYPOINT ["/opt/driver/bin/driver"]
```

As with the build container, the first step is to add any packages needed to
**run** the `native` binary produced by the build process, if any is needed like
dynamically loading libraries for compiled languages (not included in Alpine base)
or runtimes for interpreted or compiled-to-bytecode languages.

Then you will need to copy the `build` directory into `/opt/driver/bin`, so that
both the (automatically build by the SDK) `driver` and `native` binaries will
rest in that directory.

The final `CMD` command should remain at the end of the file and you should not
change it since it'll execute the driver.

### Creating the integration tests

The integration tests will test all the process of the driver from the request
to the parser to the annotated UAST generation. They work by comparing the
UAST and native output with the previously existing one, and will fail if any 
difference is found.

For this to work, the driver developer will need to provide files with source
code examples in the `tests/` directory with the `.source` file extension. It's
recommended that you keep the original extension before the `.source` so the
command below can autodetect the language.

Once this is done, you need to generate the `.native` and `.uast` fixtures with 
the command:

```
# Only if you didn't already had a bblfshd server running:
docker run -d --name bblfshd -p 9432:9432 bblfsh/bblfshd
# Only if you didn't already had the drivers installed:
docker exec -it bblfsh bblfshctl driver install --all

bblfsh-sdk-tool fixtures fixtures/*.source
```

If the command fails with the error `could not detect language` it could be
because the source files doesn't have the right extension (like when the only
extension is `.source`). If you positively know that there is a driver installed
for that language, add the `--language=mylang` to the command above to skip the
autodetection.

The first time (or every time you add a new `.source` file or regenerate the 
native/uast files) you'll need to
manually check carefully the `.uast` files because they'll be used as reference 
on
next runs. Once you're happy with them, you can run the integration tests with:

```bash
make integration-test
```

This will generate the `.native` and `.uast` files from the driver in the 
current directory and compare them with the previously generated files, failing 
and printing a diff if it detects any changes. 

If you need to regenerate some of the files for a new version that changes the
output of the native AST or the UAST, you'll need to regenerate the affected
files **with the current version of the driver you're developing** installed on
the server. This can be done with the commands:

```
make build # build the driver docker image
bblfsh driver remove mylang
docker images
# (…check the output to get the tag of the just build driver)
bblfsh driver install mylang 
docker-daemon:bblfsh/mylang-driver:dev-12345abc-dirty
```

It's advisable to create very small `.source` files just testing the annotation 
of
one language feature, or even several if the feature is complex. This will make
the tests more atomic and help immensely with your sanity when trying to debug
failed integration tests.

### Officially adding your driver to Babelfish

The last step if to have your language added to the [Babelfish Github's
Project](https://github.com/bblfsh) so more people can use/break/debug or improve
it. For this you need to request a new repository to be created which you can
make by opening a PR or talking with us in the [public Babelfish Slack
channel](https://sourced-community.slack.com/join/shared_invite/MTkwNTM0ODEyODIzLTE0OTYxMzc5NTMtODRhMDYyNzAyYQ).
Once the driver subproject has been added you'll make a PR with your code.

Commit message:

Moved content to new advanced usage page.
Also: reword the fixtures section to link to the new content.

Signed-off-by: Juanjo Alvarez <juanjo@sourced.tech>

driver/sdk.md, after:

# Babelfish SDK

The [Babelfish SDK](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/) contains the tools and libraries
required to create a Babelfish driver for a programming language.

## Preparations

### Dependencies

The Babelfish SDK has the following dependencies:

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker)
* [Go](https://golang.org/dl/)

Make sure that you've correctly set your [GOROOT and
GOPATH](https://golang.org/doc/code.html#Workspaces) environment variables.

### Installing

Install the Babelfish SDK. Native drivers and the external tools can be developed
in any programming language but the normalizer is developed using Go so you
must get it as any other go package:

```bash
$ go get -u -v gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/...
```

This will fetch the SDK repository to `$GOPATH/src/gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1` and
will install the `bblfsh-sdk` CLI to `$GOPATH/bin/bblfsh-sdk`.

### Creating the driver's initial structure

Let's say we're creating a driver for `mylang`.
The driver should be bootstrapped with `bblfsh-sdk`.
This will create a new git repo with some content required by every driver.

```bash
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/bblfsh
$ bblfsh-sdk init mylang alpine
initializing driver "mylang", creating new manifest
initializing new repo "mylang-driver"
creating file "mylang-driver/manifest.toml"
creating file "mylang-driver/.travis.yml"
creating file "mylang-driver/Dockerfile.tpl"
creating file "mylang-driver/README.md"
creating file "mylang-driver/.git/hooks/pre-commit"
creating file "mylang-driver/.gitignore"
creating file "mylang-driver/Dockerfile.build.tpl"
creating file "mylang-driver/LICENSE"
creating file "mylang-driver/Makefile"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/main.go"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/normalizer/annotation.go"
creating file "mylang-driver/driver/normalizer/tonode.go"
$ cd mylang-driver
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m 'initialize repository'
```

Note that this adds a pre-commit [git
hook](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks), which will verify
these files are up to date before every commit and will disallow commits if some
of the managed files are changed. You can by-pass this with `git commit
--no-verify`.

You can find the driver skeleton used here in the SDK source code:
[`etc/sekeleton`](https://github.com/bblfsh/sdk/tree/master/etc/skeleton).

### Updating SDK version

Whenever a new version of the SDK is released, drivers might need updates.
`bblfsh-sdk` can be used to perform some of this updates in managed files.
For example, if a new SDK version is released with a new version of the README
template, running `bblfsh-sdk update` will overwrite it.

```bash
$ bblfsh-sdk update
managed file "README.md" has changed, discarding changes
```

`bblfsh-sdk` doesn't update the SDK itself so if you want to use a new version of
the SDK you'll also have to update the Go package **first** with:

```bash
go get -u gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1/...
```

If the update gives you any problem you can try to delete the
`$GOPATH/src/gopkg.in/bblfsh/sdk.v1` manually and run the go get command
again to get a fresh copy.

## Implementing the Driver

A driver has several subcomponents. On this document and the next one
we'll see how to implement all these parts to create a new driver.

The components are:

- Tests: source code, native AST, and UAST files for the integration tests.

- Native parser: parses source code in the driver's target language
and generates a language or library specific (non-universal) AST.

- Driver normalizer: annotates and generates the final UAST.

### Creating the native parser

The native source code parser implementation should be in the directory `native`
in the top level of the driver repository. This directory should contain all
source code and support files (e.g. build system manifests) required to build it.

The core functionality to be implemented on the parser side is the source code
parser. This should get the source contents of a file and return an AST
representation. This AST representation should be what the native or library AST
parser outputs as is. The native parser might be from the standard library of the
language, a third-party library, or a custom one (in that order of preference).
Any language can be used to implement the parser so use whatever is easier for the
specific language you're working on.

#### Native parser operation

When the driver executes the parser, the former entry point should run a
main loop similar to the example below. It should read requests from standard
input (which contain a string with the contents of the source to parse), parse it
generating the native AST and write a response to the standard output.

Requests and responses must be serialized in JSON format on a single line finished
with a Unix newline character ('\n') so the driver can iterate over the standard
input line by line. This means so the language selected to implement the parser
should support it in the standard library or any third party module.

A response for a request should always be written, even if processing fails (in
this case an error response will be returned). If the standard input stream is
closed or the program can write to it for any other reason, the program should
exit with code 0. If the writing to standard output fails, the program should
exit with code 1 (additionally it could try to log the error to stderr).

Here we illustrate its behaviour in Python-like pseudocode:

```python
while True:
    line = read_line_from_stdin()
    if stdin_is_closed():
        exit(0)

    try:
        request = parse_json_request(line)
        ast = parse_code(request["content"])
        response = serialize_json_response(ast)
    except Exception, e:
        try:
            write_to_stdout(generate_error_response(e))
        except:
            exit(1)
        continue

    try:
        write_to_stdout(response)
    except:
        exit(1)
```

In order to avoid maintainability burdens, the parser should avoid, as much as
possible, to change the AST that is generated by the language library or third
party module in use. One exception to this would be to improve the information
kept in the AST to kept more information as explained in the ["From Code to AST"]
(../uast/code-to-ast.md) page, for example, for including comments and whitespace
information. Use your own discretion when balancing the improved information
versus the development and maintainability effort.


The fields in the JSON requests and responses are detailed on the [internal
protocol](internal-protocol.md) page.

*Note:* When extracting the native AST you should try to keep as much information
as possible following the guidelines explained in the ["From Code to
AST"](../uast/code-to-ast.md) page.

#### Native parser unit tests

The parser should provide unit tests checking that the parsing and the AST
conversion work well. Since the parser can be written in many different
languages, the location and form of the tests should try to be as idiomatic
as possible to avoid future maintainability problems.

Once you've created your unit tests, you must modify the Makefile in the root
of the driver filesystem adding the commands to run them under the Makefile
target `test-parser-internal`. For example, for a Python driver using the
Python default test framework it could look like:

```Makefile
test-parser-internal:
    cd native/python_package/test; \
    python3 -m unittest discover
```

Once you've done it, you can run your tests with `make test-parser-internal`.
Please note that these tests aren't run inside a Docker container so you'll need
to have any needed dependency installed on your environment to run the tests.

### Creating the Converter and Annotator

The conversion from AST to UAST is written in Go. The main files to be edited are
`driver/normalizer/annotation.go` and `driver/normalizer/tonode.go`. The details
are explained in the [annotations section](annotations.html).

### Updating the Makefile with the build instructions

The `Makefile` must contain a target with instructions to build the
parser and install it into a preconfigured path. The `bblfsh` tool
has already added that target with this code:

```Makefile
build-native-internal:
    cd native; \
    echo "not implemented"
    echo -e "#!/bin/bash\necho 'not implemented'" > $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
    chmod +x $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
```

You need to remove the placeholder `echo` commands and add there any
commands needed to compile (for non-interpreted languages) and generate
a binary or script with the name `native`, copy it to `$(BUILD\_PATH)` and
assign execution permissions.

For example, for a typical C program the target could be:

```Makefile
build-native-internal:
    cd native; \
    gcc parser.c -o $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
    chmod +x $(BUILD_PATH)/bin/native
```

This makefile target will usually run inside a Docker container (see
the next section), but you can test it running `make build-native-internal`
and checking the resulting file on the `build` directory.


### Configuring the build Dockerfile

The building of the driver is done in a Docker container so you must adapt the
Docker template `Dockerfile.build.tpl` that the `bblfsh` command created for you
to install all the dependencies needed to build the `native` command detailed in
the previous step.

The templated dockerfile looks like this (without comments):

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.6
RUN mkdir -p /opt/driver/src && \
    adduser ${BUILD_USER} -u ${BUILD_UID} -D -h /opt/driver/src
RUN apk add --no-cache make git curl ca-certificates
WORKDIR /opt/driver/src
```

As the comments in the file say, Alpine is the preferred distribution for
space reasons but you can use Debian slim or other slim versions if for any
reason Alpine don't work for your driver.

You should add any packages you need to the `apk add` line. Avoid adding more
lines with more `RUN apk add` commands instead because that would create more
intermediate layers (taking more space).

You can also install dependencies using the language package manager instead
(pip, cargo, dub, npm, etc. if you prefer, after installing it with apk.
Another option is downloading and compiling the dependencies. If you go that
way you'll probably need the `build-base` or `alpine-sdk` packages.

You can see a list and search for Alpine packages
[here](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages).

You don't need to run any command to build the `native` file; the SDK will
execute `make build-native-internal` target once the Docker has been created.

To trigger the building and test your Dockerfile and building process you can
issue the commands:

```bash
$ bblfsh-sdk prepare-build
$ make build
```

You'll see a sequence of `docker build` and `docker run` commands execute and any
building error will show on the standard output.

### Configuring the run Dockerfile

The second dockerfile template that you have to edit is the one that the Babelfish
server will use to run new instances of drivers. Like the build one it will also
be generated by the `bblfsh-sdk` command but with the filename `Dockerfile.tpl`
and this initial content without comments:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.6
ENTRYPOINT ["/opt/driver/bin/driver"]
```

As with the build container, the first step is to add any packages needed to
**run** the `native` binary produced by the build process, if any is needed like
dynamically loading libraries for compiled languages (not included in Alpine base)
or runtimes for interpreted or compiled-to-bytecode languages.

Then you will need to copy the `build` directory into `/opt/driver/bin`, so that
both the (automatically build by the SDK) `driver` and `native` binaries will
rest in that directory.

The final `CMD` command should remain at the end of the file and you should not
change it since it'll execute the driver.

### Creating the integration tests

The integration tests will test all the process of the driver from the request
to the parser to the annotated UAST generation. They work by comparing the
UAST and native output with the previously existing one, and will fail if any 
difference is found.

For this to work, the driver developer will need to provide files with source
code examples in the `tests/` directory with the `.source` file extension. It's
recommended that you keep the original extension before the `.source` so the
command below can autodetect the language.

Once this is done, you need to generate the `.native` and `.uast`, but first you
should have either a [bblfshd server with
your driver
added](advanced-usage.md#adding-drivers-from-the-local-docker-daemon) or a
[single driver listening on the 9432
port](advanced-usage.md#running-a-driver-without-the-server), the latest option
being probably the easiest.

Once this is done, run the command from the driver top directory:

```
bblfsh-sdk-tool fixtures fixtures/*.source
```

If the command fails with the error `could not detect language` it could be
because the source files doesn't have the right extension (like when the only
extension is `.source`). If you positively know that there is a driver installed
for that language, add the `--language=mylang` to the command above to skip the
autodetection.

The first time (or every time you add a new `.source` file or regenerate the 
native/uast files) you'll need to
manually check carefully the `.uast` files because they'll be used as reference 
on
next runs. Once you're happy with them, you can run the integration tests with:

```bash
make integration-test
```

This will generate the `.native` and `.uast` files from the driver in the 
current directory and compare them with the previously generated files, failing 
and printing a diff if it detects any changes. 

If you need to regenerate some of the files for a new version that changes the
output of the native AST or the UAST, you'll need to regenerate the affected
files **with the current version of the driver you're developing** installed on
the server. This can be done with the commands:

```
make build # build the driver docker image
bblfsh driver remove mylang
docker images
# (…check the output to get the tag of the just build driver)
bblfsh driver install mylang 
docker-daemon:bblfsh/mylang-driver:dev-12345abc-dirty
```

It's advisable to create very small `.source` files just testing the annotation 
of
one language feature, or even several if the feature is complex. This will make
the tests more atomic and help immensely with your sanity when trying to debug
failed integration tests.

### Officially adding your driver to Babelfish

The last step if to have your language added to the [Babelfish Github's
Project](https://github.com/bblfsh) so more people can use/break/debug or improve
it. For this you need to request a new repository to be created which you can
make by opening a PR or talking with us in the [public Babelfish Slack
channel](https://sourced-community.slack.com/join/shared_invite/MTkwNTM0ODEyODIzLTE0OTYxMzc5NTMtODRhMDYyNzAyYQ).
Once the driver subproject has been added you'll make a PR with your code.
