user/advanced-usage.md, before:

# Advanced Usage

#### Adding drivers from the local Docker daemon

You can add a driver to the server using one stored in the local Docker
daemon instead of the offical ones at Dockerhub. This is specially useful when
developing new drivers as it allows you to test versions of your driver
integrated into the server.

If you want to do this, the Unix socket that Docker uses to communicate with the
instance must be mounted in the bblfshd image, which you can do with the `-v`
parameter like in the next example:


```bash
$ docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v /var/lib/bblfshd:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

Now you can add drivers from the local Docker using `bblfshctl` like this:

```bash
docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver install python docker-daemon:bblfsh/python-driver:dev-123321-dirty
```

#### Running a driver without the server

You can also directly run a driver's Docker image without a server. Like the
bblfshd server, it will serve using the gRPC protocol on the 9432 port (trough 
you can easily change it using the `-p` option to `docker run`). 

Running a driver this way means that requests will be processed serially so no
more than one request at a time will be served and of course no more than the
driver's language can be parsed, trough it can be convenient for some quick UAST
extraction of specific files or quick tests since it skips the steps of running
a server and managing its drivers.

To run a driver independently of the server run:

```bash
docker run --rm -p 9432:9432 bblfsh/python-driver
```

(change `python-driver` for the driver that you want to run). 

Then you can send requests using any of the clients.

Commit message:

Change --all for --recommended. Document new --all
Signed-off-by: Juanjo Alvarez <juanjo@sourced.tech>

user/advanced-usage.md, after:

# Advanced Usage

#### Adding all drivers

In the [previous section](getting-started.md) the `bblfshctl` command to install
the drivers was shown with the `--recommended` switch. This will install all the
drivers in beta stage or better and annotated UAST support. But if you're
interested in installing [all official language drivers](../languages.md), even the
ones that have alpha status and only native AST support, you can use the `--all`
switch instead:

```sh
$ docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver install --all
```


#### Adding drivers from the local Docker daemon

You can add a driver to the server using one stored in the local Docker
daemon instead of the official ones at Dockerhub. This is especially useful when
developing new drivers as it allows you to test versions of your driver
integrated into the server.

If you want to do this, the Unix socket that Docker uses to communicate with the
instance must be mounted in the bblfshd image, which you can do with the `-v`
parameter like in the next example:


```bash
$ docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --name bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v /var/lib/bblfshd:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd
```

Now you can add drivers from the local Docker using `bblfshctl` like this:

```bash
docker exec -it bblfshd bblfshctl driver install python docker-daemon:bblfsh/python-driver:dev-123321-dirty
```

#### Running a driver without the server

You can also directly run a driver's Docker image without a server. Like the
bblfshd server, it will serve using the gRPC protocol on the 9432 port (through 
you can easily change it using the `-p` option to `docker run`). 

Running a driver this way means that requests will be processed serially so no
more than one request at a time will be served and of course no more than the
driver's language can be parsed, through it can be convenient for some quick UAST
extraction of specific files or quick tests since it skips the steps of running
a server and managing its drivers.

To run a driver independently of the server run:

```bash
docker run --rm -p 9432:9432 bblfsh/python-driver
```

(change `python-driver` for the driver that you want to run). 

Then you can send requests using any of the clients.
