user/language-clients.md, before:

# Babelfish clients

There are some clients in different languages that provide a higher level API,
built on top of [gRPC](https://grpc.io) and [`libuast`](https://github.com/bblfsh/libuast).

These clients make it easier to both parse and analyze the resulting UAST,
abstracting from network communication and providing a query language to
filter UASTs.

## Existing clients

There are clients for the following languages:

| Language | Status | Libuast | URL                                     |
| -------- | ------ | ------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Python   | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python |
| Go       | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go     |
| Scala    | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala  |

## Example

The client API's differ to adapt to their language specific idioms, the following
code shows a simple example with the Go client that parsers a Python file
and applies a filter to return all the simple identifiers:

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"reflect"

	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v1"
)

func main() {
	client, err := bblfsh.NewClient("localhost:9432")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	res, err := client.NewParseRequest().ReadFile("some_file.py").Do()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	if reflect.TypeOf(res.UAST).Name() != "Node" {
		fmt.Errorf("Node must be the root of a UAST")
	}

	query := "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
	nodes, _ := tools.Filter(res.UAST, query)
	for _, n := range nodes {
		fmt.Println(n)
	}
}
```

## Query language

When using one of the clients that support libuast you can query the UAST result
nodes using an [xpath-like](https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/) query language. Check
the [UAST querying page in this documentation](uast-querying.md) for the
details.

Commit message:

Add docs about the iterators
Signed-off-by: Juanjo Alvarez <juanjo@sourced.tech>

user/language-clients.md, after:

# Babelfish clients

There are some clients in different languages that provide a higher level API,
built on top of [gRPC](https://grpc.io) and [`libuast`](https://github.com/bblfsh/libuast).

These clients make it easier to both parse and analyze the resulting UAST,
abstracting from network communication and providing a query language to
filter UASTs.

## Existing clients

There are clients for the following languages:

| Language | Status | Libuast | URL                                     |
| -------- | ------ | ------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Python   | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-python |
| Go       | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-go     |
| Scala    | Beta   | ✓       | https://github.com/bblfsh/client-scala  |

## Example

The client API's differ to adapt to their language specific idioms, the following
code shows a simple example with the Go client that parsers a Python file
and applies a filter to return all the simple identifiers:

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"reflect"

	"gopkg.in/bblfsh/client-go.v2"
)

func main() {
	client, err := bblfsh.NewClient("localhost:9432")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	res, err := client.NewParseRequest().ReadFile("some_file.py").Do()
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	if reflect.TypeOf(res.UAST).Name() != "Node" {
		fmt.Errorf("Node must be the root of a UAST")
	}

	query := "//*[@roleIdentifier and not(@roleQualified)]"
	nodes, _ := tools.Filter(res.UAST, query)
	for _, n := range nodes {
		fmt.Println(n)
	}
}
```

## Query language

When using one of the clients that support libuast you can query the UAST result
nodes using an [xpath-like](https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/) query language. Check
the [UAST querying page in this documentation](uast-querying.md) for the
details.

## Iterators

The client also allow you to instance an Iterator object and iterate over the
tree on several predefined orders:

- [Pre-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Pre-order)
- [Post-Order](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Post-order)
- [Level-Order / Breadth first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#Breadth-first_search)
- Position-Order (this will retrieve the nodes in the same order as their 
  position in the source code).

To check the exact way to use an iterator you must consult the readme of the 
specific language client you're using, but they're generally easy to use as 
this Python example shows:

```python
import bblfsh
client = bblfsh.BblfshClient("0.0.0.0:9432")
root = client.parse("/path/to/myfile.py")

for node in bblfsh.iterator(root, bblfsh.TreeOrder.PRE_ORDER):
	#... do stuff with the node
```
